Add repo setup (#1)
qiskit-community/qiskit-algorithms: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

**We appreciate all kinds of help, so thank you!**

First please read the overall project contributing guidelines. These are
included in the Qiskit documentation here:

https://qiskit.org/documentation/contributing_to_qiskit.html

> ## Contributing to Qiskit Machine Learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Contributing to Qiskit Algorithms

In addition to the general guidelines above there are specific details for

> contributing to Qiskit Machine Learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contributing to Qiskit Algorithms.
```

You should first install the python development libraries by running
`pip install -r requirements-dev.txt` from the root of the
Machine Learning repository clone and then
follow the  guidelines below.

### Project Code Style.

> Code in Qiskit Machine Learning should conform to PEP8 and style/lint checks are run to validate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code in Qiskit Algorithms should conform to PEP8 and style/lint checks are run to validate
```

this.  Line length must be limited to no more than 100 characters. Docstrings
should be written using the Google docstring format.

### Pull request checklist

When submitting a pull request and you feel it is ready for review,
please ensure that:

1. The code follows the _code style_ of this project and successfully

>    passes the _unit tests_. Machine Learning uses [Pylint](https://www.pylint.org) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   passes the _unit tests_. Qiskit Algorithms uses [Pylint](https://www.pylint.org) and
```

   [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008) style guidelines.
   
   You can run
   ```shell script
   make lint
   make style 
   ```

>    from the root of the Machine Learning repository clone for lint and style conformance checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   from the root of the Algorithms repository clone for lint and style conformance checks.
```

they'll have to update their code.

After you've finished writing your release notes you'll want to add the note
file to your commit with `git add` and commit them to your PR branch to make
sure they're included with the code in your PR.

#### Generating the release notes

After release notes have been added if you want to see what the full output of
the release notes. In general the output from reno that we'll get is a rst
(ReStructuredText) file that can be compiled by
[sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/). To generate the rst file you
use the ``reno report`` command. If you want to generate the full Machine Learning release
notes for all releases (since we started using reno during 0.9) you just run::

    reno report

but you can also use the ``--version`` argument to view a single release (after
it has been tagged::

    reno report --version 0.5.0

At release time ``reno report`` is used to generate the release notes for the
release and the output will be submitted as a pull request to the documentation
repository's [release notes file](
https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/blob/main/docs/release_notes.rst)

#### Building release notes locally

> Building The release notes are part of the standard qiskit-machine-learning documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building The release notes are part of the standard qiskit-algorithms documentation
```

builds. To check what the rendered html output of the release notes will look
like for the current state of the repo you can run: `tox -edocs` which will
build all the documentation into `docs/_build/html` and the release notes in
particular will be located at `docs/_build/html/release_notes.html`

> ## Installing Qiskit Machine Learning from source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing Qiskit Algorithms from source
```

> Please see the [Installing Qiskit Machine Learning from
> Source](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-machine-learning#installation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see the [Installing Qiskit Algorithms from
Source](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-algorithms#installation)
```

section of the Qiskit documentation.

> Note: Machine Learning depends on Terra, and has optional dependence on Aer and IBM Q Provider, so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Qiskit Algorithms depends on Terra, and has optional dependence on Aer, so
```

> these should be installed too. The main branch of Machine Learning is kept working with those other element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these should be installed too. The main branch of Algorithms is kept working with those other element
```

main branches so these should be installed from source too following the instructions at 
the same location

> Machine Learning also has some other optional dependents see 
> [Machine Learning optional installs](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-machine-learning#optional-installs) for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Algorithms also has some other optional dependents see 
[Algorithms optional installs](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-algorithms#optional-installs) for
```
I somehow doubt there are any optional installs - I can't think of any at present. I guess the target here can say there are none and this can be kept

further information. Unit tests that require any of the optional dependents will check
and skip the test if not installed.

### Testing

Once you've made a code change, it is important to verify that your change
does not break any existing tests and that any new tests that you've added
also run successfully. Before you open a new pull request for your change,
you'll want to run the test suite locally.

The test suite can be run from a command line or via your IDE. You can run `make test` which will
run all unit tests. Another way to run the test suite is to use
[**tox**](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#). For more information about using tox please
refer to
[Terra CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#test)

> Test section. However please note Machine Learning does not have any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test section. However please note Algorithms does not have any
```

[online tests](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#online-tests)
nor does it have
[test skip
 options](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#test-skip-options).    

### Development Cycle

> The development cycle for qiskit-machine-learning is informed by release plans in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The development cycle for qiskit-algorithms is informed by release plans in the 
```

Reviewer: I have no idea going forwards with this - ie why a community project would have rfcs in Qiskit organization. Same is true for apps.

Author: Well, there is at least one, the one about the repo migration

Reviewer: Right but then it was talking about code in the Qiskit org... now, no more. Its not of course all that important in the scheme of things at present - just figured I comment while I saw it.

[Qiskit rfcs repository](https://github.com/Qiskit/rfcs)
 
### Branches

* `main`:

> The main branch is used for development of the next version of qiskit-machine-learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main branch is used for development of the next version of qiskit-algorithms.
```

It will be updated frequently and should not be considered stable. The API
can and will change on main as we introduce and refine new features.

* `stable/*`:
The stable branches are used to maintain the most recent released versions of
qiskit-machine-learning. It contains the versions of the code corresponding to the minor
version release in the branch name release for The API on these branches are
stable and the only changes merged to it are bugfixes.

### Release Cycle

> From time to time, we will release brand new versions of Qiskit Machine Learning. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From time to time, we will release brand new versions of Qiskit Algorithms. These
```

are well-tested versions of the software.

When the time for a new release has come, we will:

1.  Create a new tag with the version number and push it to github
2.  Change the `main` version to the next release version.

The release automation processes will be triggered by the new tag and perform
the following steps:

1.  Create a stable branch for the new minor version from the release tag
    on the `main` branch
2.  Build and upload binary wheels to pypi
3.  Create a github release page with a generated changelog
4.  Generate a PR on the meta-repository to bump the terra version and
    meta-package version.

The `stable/*` branches should only receive changes in the form of bug
fixes.

## Dealing with the git blame ignore list

> In the qiskit-machine-learning repository we maintain a list of commits for git blame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the qiskit-algorithms repository we maintain a list of commits for git blame
```

to ignore. This is mostly commits that are code style changes that don't
change the functionality but just change the code formatting (for example,
when we migrated to use black for code formatting). This file,
`.git-blame-ignore-revs` just contains a list of commit SHA1s you can tell git
to ignore when using the `git blame` command. This can be done one time
with something like

```

> git blame --ignore-revs-file .git-blame-ignore-revs qiskit_machine_learning/version.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git blame --ignore-revs-file .git-blame-ignore-revs qiskit_algorithms/version.py
```
